---
layout: post
title: "My Life So Far"
date: 2022-02-22
---

I am not sure exactly where to start but here goes.

Okay maybe a good place to start is back in late high school when I was applying to college. At this point in my life I was feeling really hopeful about the future. I thought that I was going to get into a really good school like MIT and be around a bunch of smart people and learn a ton. I was primarily interested in mathematics and I really, really loved math. I was in math club and competed in math competitions and actually by my senior year I was finally starting to have individual success in competitions and even won a couple trophies. I was president of the club. I thought I might be a mathematician or a professor but like most kids and young adults I was really not sure exactly what I wanted to be. I just had a very strong curiosity and interest in learning things but was particularly passionate about math. My junior year, like all high school juniors in the US, I took the PSAT. I did really well and got awarded the national merit scholarship for my performance on this test. It is kind of funny because I remember the morning of the test I was slightly late to school because I stopped to get chick fil a on the way and I was not aware that by taking the PSAT I had a chance to get the national merit scholarship. I didn't even know what that was. I just thought it was a practice test for the real SAT. Of course I did my best on the test and took it seriously but I didn't do any prep for it because I kind of thought it was the prep. Anyway I did really well and when we got the results back in my home room I just remember being amazed because I got nearly a perfect score (800, 800, 720) for the mathematics, reading and writing sections. Also a side note: writing was always my weak point on standardized tests and I am very glad that we did not have to write an essay on the PSAT. I consider myself pretty lucky to have done that well on the test and a few months after receiving the results and going through the national merit award process and even writing an essay I ended up going as far as you possibly could and was awarded the national merit scholarship. I believe around 8000 students in the US received that distinction with me in 2013. At the point in my life I was feeling super smart and confident and just felt like I was capable of doing great things academically.

I'm not sure when I first saw it, maybe sophomore or early my junior year of high school, but the movie Good Will Hunting has always been an inspiration for me and also just a damn good movie. I think it was because of this movie that I began to form the idea in my head that I wanted to go to MIT. I started watching MIT open courseware lectures and was in awe but at the same time I felt like I could follow along and like I belonged there. So when it came time to apply to colleges I really just wanted to get into MIT and the other schools I applied to (Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, Yale) because of their apparent similarity to MIT and I really did not do a lot of research into other schools. This was, in hindsight, one of many dumb and very narrow minded things I have done in my life but I will try to make this about how I got here and maybe not so much about the things I would do differently now, because there are so so many. I applied early to MIT because that was my priority and everywhere else I applied on the normal timeline. At the time I was really uncomfortable and unsure of how to advertise myself as an applicant. I did not know what they were looking for really or how to express that I was qualified to go there even though I felt very strongly that I was qualified.



I still struggle with this at the age of 25 but I think now I have a better idea how to approach this. It may not be the best method but I just try to be completely authentic and not worry too much about the 'right' way to compose a resume or to interview. Just add the things you care about and talk about the things that you think make you qualified and don't worry about what the interviewer thinks. If it is a good fit, they will like you, if not, then you just have to trust that eventually the process will match you with a school, or job that is a good fit. This does not mean you should be unprepared; only that you should not compromise who you are to cater to some specific application. If you get the job or get into the school by faking your way through then you might just have to fake it the whole time you are in that role too.

If anyone is reading this they are probably fed up by now. I realize this has been basically me just bragging about how 'smart' I was in high school. In truth I was feeling very smart, probably to the point of being conceited, but I assure you this overconfidence is about to come crashing down. I just need to build myself up for dramatic effect and explain why I was confident to a fault. Here begins a long chapter of mediocrity and underachievement.

So I kind of forgot the exact timeline but I got a response from MIT during the fall of my senior year. My application had been deferred to the spring and would be considered with the rest of the applications that came in at the normal time. I definitely forgot the statistics of how many people were deferred/accepted from the early application period but I remember I was still hopeful, if not optimistic, that I would get accepted to MIT following the deferral. As I mentioned, I applied to four other schools. I took my application to Harvard, Stanford, and Princeton pretty seriously. Yale was kind of a weird one to apply to so I did with less enthusiasm than the rest. I guess I thought of Yale as a plan b.

Oh yeah, I left out the only school I got accepted to, FSU. My brother went to FSU and I applied there right before the deadline because my parents wanted me to have another option. Luckily the application was quite short otherwise I may have just skipped it. FSU was my plan z. I was confident I would get into at least one of the 5 'good' schools that I applied to.
